Image Matching Challenge 2025 — 3D Scene Clustering & Reconstruction

Final Rank: 140 / 950
Private Score Achieved (Unsubmitted Version): 38 — would have placed in the Top-50, but this version did not make it into final submissions.
Repository Code: Contains the implementation that achieved my best officially submitted rank.

🧩 Overview

This repository contains my solution for the Image Matching Challenge 2025, a large-scale computer vision competition focused on grouping images into coherent 3D scenes and reconstructing accurate camera poses.

The task advances Structure-from-Motion (SfM) and image clustering at scale, addressing a fundamental challenge: how to determine which images belong together when online image collections are noisy, unstructured, and visually ambiguous.

Real-world datasets often contain unrelated or visually confusing images, making classical SfM pipelines brittle. This competition pushes toward robust, scalable systems capable of handling:

Similar-looking but distinct scenes

Outlier images

Missing GPS/metadata

Challenging lighting, perspective, and photometric variations

My approach focuses on robust image grouping, pose estimation, and hybrid registration heuristics, balancing precision and recall as measured by the competition’s harmonic scoring metric.

🚀 Key Results

Official Score: From the submitted reconstruction & clustering pipeline

Rank: 140 / 950 participants

Private Model (unsubmitted): Achieved 38 combined score, which would have placed Top-50, but was not submitted before deadline

Repository: Contains the version corresponding to the best submitted ranking, ensuring reproducibility

🏆 Competition Summary

Start: April 1, 2025
End: June 3, 2025

This is the third installment of the Image Matching Challenge, extending previous years by requiring participants to solve two tasks simultaneously:

Image Partitioning
Group images into clusters that represent scenes, or mark them as outliers.

Scene Reconstruction
For each scene, estimate camera poses (rotation matrix + translation vector).

This dual problem resembles solving a jigsaw puzzle where pieces from other puzzles are mixed in, and some pieces belong to no puzzle at all.

📂 Task Description

Participants receive datasets consisting of:

One or more scenes, visually similar but distinct

A mix of inlier and outlier images

Training data includes ground truth poses

Test data provides only images

Your system must output:

A cluster ID (scene label) for each image

A camera pose (rotation matrix + translation vector) when applicable

nan pose values for outliers or unregistered-but-clustered images

All predictions go into a single submission.csv.

🧮 Evaluation

The evaluation integrates:

1. mAA (mean Average Accuracy)

Measures how many images of the true scene are correctly placed in the predicted cluster (recall).

2. Clustering Score

Measures cluster purity (precision).

Final Score

Harmonic mean of mAA and clustering score — analogous to F1-score.

Scores are computed via:

Greedy scene–cluster assignment

Aggregation across datasets

Averaging across all test datasets

📄 Submission Format

Each CSV row includes:

dataset,scene,image,rotation_matrix,translation_vector


scene accepts any label (cluster1, cluster2, …)

outliers label marks images excluded from reconstruction

Rotation matrices are flattened row-major (r11;r12;...;r33)

Unregistered images use nan values for poses

Example row:

dataset1,cluster1,image1.png,0.1;0.2;0.3;0.4;0.5;0.6;0.7;0.8;0.9,0.1;0.2;0.3

🛠 Code Requirements

This is a Kaggle Code Competition:

CPU or GPU Notebook runtime ≤ 9 hours

No internet access

External public datasets and pre-trained models allowed

Output file must be named submission.csv

Must be executed inside Kaggle Notebooks

🧠 Method Summary (High-Level)

(Adapt this section depending on what's in your repo)

Hybrid image grouping using geometric verification, feature-space clustering, and robust heuristics

Pose estimation using a pipeline of feature extraction, pairwise matching, track generation, and global registration

Outlier handling using statistical thresholds + self-consistency checks

Safety fallback for unregistered-but-high-confidence cluster assignments (pose = nan)
